RESURRECTION ERTUGRUL
THE STORIES AND CHARACTERS DEPICTED
HERE WERE INSPIRED BY OUR HISTORY
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED DURING
THE FILMING OF THIS PRODUCTION.
Talk!
Who gave you the order to kill Ertugrul?
Answer me!
Who ordered you to kill
Suleyman Shah’s son?
Has not this lowlife confessed yet?
He will soon.
We know that you are not alone.
Who helped you inside the palace?
Tell him, uncle...
...if he talks, I will spare his life.
Answer me.
Who helped you to attack Ameer’s guest?
It was you!
Answer me properly!
Who helped you?
Who? Who was he?
El Aziz’s vizier,
Sahabettin Tugrul helped me.
Uncle?
What is this man saying?
He will talk soon.
Someone is coming!
Get prepared immediately!
Master Titus is waiting for us!
Exercise is over! Order the knights
in the barracks to get ready!
My father used to say that you were
his most trusted man. I trust you as well.
That is your kindness, your highness.
I trust you more than my uncle.
Please, your highness Elanora,
do not compare Ustad-i Azam with me.
Titus talked about a dungeon
before he left the castle.
Did he want to say that my father was
thrown to a dungeon before he was killed?
I do not know, it would be best
if you asked this to Master Titus.
Before my father died, you were always
with him but you did not tell me...
...about a dungeon. Maybe my father
is still in a dungeon somewhere.
I am ready to hear and
know the truth, Mario.
-No, both of you would...
-Both? My father and I?
No, no. I meant you and Master Titus.
You are lying to me as well.
Alright, put it right here.
Right here.
If it is ready, untie the ropes.
Children, take your lamb somewhere else.
We need that chest.
You help us as well, alright?
You old goat. I would have never thought
that Ertugrul Bey would dwell in these...
...love issues like you.
My brother, these things cannot be known.
It may happen to you one day as well.
You would think that you can stand up
against the whole world...
...but a pair of eyes would come
and smash you to the ground.
Which girl would like this log?
Moreover you need not a pair of eyes...
...but a pair of wrists to smash him
to the ground and I have that.
Stop right there Dogan,
stop clowning about.
I need to understand this.
Doesn’t Ertugrul Bey love this girl now?
He should ask permission
from her father to get married.
Are these things so easy, brother?
I don’t understand. If Ertugrul Bey asks
for her hand, wouldn’t her father accept?
If that is not possible,
we can abduct Halime Sultan.
What does your heart say?
State your troubles so that
we can help you if we know a way.
My Sultan, he wants to escape from the
hell we call palace as soon as possible.
So that he can focus on praying to God
in the Prophet’s mosques.
Is your desire, leaving behind
the throne like Shah Ibrahim ibn Adham...
...and to reach enlightenment?
But would not leaving this post
and going away mean...
...leaving behind the ones
who trust you as well?
You give your services in the palace.
But what will happen to the Muslim world?
The owner of this world and Islam is God.
Your duty is to work on the path to God.
I have never refrained from duty.
I did all that was asked from me
without hesitation.
-But...
-What is the despair in your mind?
Ameer  El Aziz, my nephew.
He is just like a child.
I consume all my energy
trying to contain him.
But...
...messengers bring news every day.
From Abbasi Khalifa’s palace,
Khwarazmshah’s throne...
...from Cairo, Baghdad.
Wherever there is a vizier, a mayor who
cares for the problems of the people...
...they are being killed one by one.
Even in our own palace, we do not know
who is acting according to whose agenda.
Are the things you said...
...an excuse to resign from your duty...
...or a reason to work even harder?
When you continue in your efforts
without questioning yourself...
...God will bring you assistants and the
people whom you will help sooner or later.
My sheikh...
...could you do a favor
for this God’s subject?
Favor?
When a man asks for
a favor from his father...
...the father would say
“give service, my son.”
Do not forget...
...those who are ready to sacrifice
themselves for their invalid beliefs...
...would always win over the Muslims
who are not prepared to fight for God.
This is God’s justice.
God’s Son is waiting for you
at His kingdom in heaven.
You suffered, just like
He suffered in order to save us.
What is inside it?
Argos. It will take you to God’s Son.
When you see me again,
it means you are on your way to God.
What is the latest situation
in the palace?
We have someone from us
in almost all the posts.
What about the vizier?
Sahabettin.
His eyes are always on his nephew. But...
...I have some plans for him as well.
Good.
Soon, death will fall upon
all Muslim capitals.
Everyone will ask for help
from their neighbors.
It is of utmost importance that the
replies to letters that come to Aleppo...
...are stamped with El Aziz’s seal
but written by you.
Before calling for the Crusade army...
...we should take hold of all
communications within the Muslim palaces.
I understand, sir. Do now worry.
If you don’t have any other orders...
...I would like to return to the palace.
I would not like them to miss me.
What did you do about the issue of Kayis?
Will you be able to send Suleyman Shah’s
tribe to another place away from us?
When I deal with Vizier Sahabettin,
that issue will be solved as well, sir.
Titus also said things similar to this.
He said Kayis will never
settle under our noses...
...but they will be starting
their journey soon.
Sir, why does the existence of Kayis
at your borders makes you worry so much?
Why are you so anxious about a tribe that
can only gather 2000 warriors at most?
When I clear the road between Antioch and
Jerusalem for a new Crusade campaign...
...the last thing I want is
a warring Turkmen tribe settled nearby.
If we close our eyes on Kayis today,
tomorrow they would close our eyes.
Do not forget Saladin Ayyubi.
He was born in one of
the thousands of farms within Iraq.
Then he became a soldier under
the command of Nureddin Zengid.
He was promoted.
He was only a commander amongst
hundreds of commanders.
You know the rest.
If we could stop him in time...
...Jerusalem would still be
in our hands now.
And I would not have needed to bother
with people like you!
I understand, sir.
Tell them to prepare the horses, Marcus.
We are going back to the castle.
Once upon a time there was
a famous carpenter in Baghdad.
During his last days,
he carved a very beautiful pulpit.
A very beautiful one. From walnut wood,
decorated with mother of pearl.
It was so beautiful that everyone
would be enchanted by its beauty.
The news of the beautiful pulpit spread.
Everyone who came to Baghdad would go
and ask him to sell the pulpit to them...
...to take it to their mosque.
His answer would always be the same.
He would say: “No,
this pulpit belongs to Al Aqsa Mosque.”
People would get bewildered as Jerusalem
was occupied by the Crusaders.
The carpenter would give
the same reply every single time.
This is all I can do. I am a craftsman.
I make pulpits.
Let one valiant warrior take back
Jerusalem, then the pulpit can be placed.
As time passed, the pulpit story
was heard in all the cities.
While everyone was telling each other
how beautiful the pulpit was...
...the story was heard by
a boy only seven or eight years old.
But he focused more on the will of the man
rather than the beauty of the pulpit.
40 years passed and he took that pulpit...
...and placed it in its rightful place
in the Al Aqsa Mosque.
The tongues spoke of him
as Saladin Ayyubi.
These matters are like this.
We carve out new pulpits
like that carpenter...
...the valiant people who will put them
in their rightful place will come out.
-Gundogdu.
-Yes, Usta?
If Suleyman Shah would have seen you
at the headquarters, he would be proud.
-I just want you to know that.
-Thank you.
We will break through
this ring of fire together.
Do not forget, you are his son.
When your origins are a wolf,
your heart is a wolf as well.
-Gundogdu Bey?
-What happened, Akcakoca?
There are some things
I need to talk with you.
Aykiz...
...Gokce is not well.
Her troubles are deep
but she still keeps quiet.
She refrains from talking to me...
...can you talk with her?
I see her condition as well, Mother Hayme.
But you know as well...
...the remedy of her troubles
is not with me.
I know.
I know but...
Gokce is like her late mother...
...she keeps silent and burns within.
But being so silent is not good.
Aykiz...
Gokce?
Let me help you.
There are only a few things left anyway.
You are in sorrow because
they accuse Ertugrul Bey.
Do not worry, the truth will come out.
Of course it will.
We should pray that they are well.
We could not say goodbye when Turgut left.
I have a feeling that a bad thing
is going to happen.
My mind is always with him.
Hope is the best medicine for even
the deadliest nightmares.
You know very well...
...Turgut will return to the tribe.
His return will be returning to you.
You will rejoice with your loved one.
But the separation between
Ertugrul and I is not distance.
Even if he returns...
...even if he sits beside me,
I will be the furthest one from him.
It will be like looking at the sun
behind the insurmountable mountains.
Bey...
...first I thought it was because of
the famine and did not gave importance.
But, the matter is grave.
What is your opinion?
Plague.
Black death?
What do we need to do?
Bey...
...I checked the whole tribe.
I stamped the ill animals with red paint
and gathered them all here.
If we exterminate all of them...
...with God’s help,
we can avoid this disaster.
If God permits, Akcakoca, if God permits.
If God permits, Bey.
Do whatever you need to do.
Find someone trustable
and keep it a secret.
The tribe is in the brink of havoc,
we don’t need criers of disaster as well.
-May God turn it into a good deed.
-Alright, Bey.
Everyone is nervous as it is,
why do you call me here, Selcan Hatun?
Why do you worry
when you see me, Kurdoglu?
You should think about what
you will do when Suleyman Shah wakes up.
That is not my problem, your husband,
who tries to take advantage of...
...his father’s illness should be worried.
You think I am one of the Beys
you convinced at the headquarters.
Don’t I know the things you are up to?
Don’t lose your breath and tell me...
...you beat Gundogdu at the headquarters.
What will you do when
Suleyman Shah wakes up?
Don’t you worry about these things,
Selcan Hatun. I will find a way.
Suleyman Shah will be leaving tomorrow.
They will be going to Aleppo,
to find a remedy for his illness.
If he gets up again...
...think about your fate then.
What are you trying to say?
Speak clearly,
do not beat around the bush.
If our Suleyman Shah who sleeps
with high fever, God forbid...
...gives his last breath tonight.
Even I would say Azrael was the culprit...
...I would mourn and cry at his grave.
How will it be done?
Tonight...
...I will take Gundogdu and
Mother Hayme out of the tent...
...the rest is up to you.
If Suleyman Shah dies, I would revenge my
father’s death and you would become Bey.
30 knights have been sent
upon Sir Titus’s request.
Ustad-i Azam, you have a guest
from Vatican in your room.
He is waiting for you.
My dear friend Petruccio.
Cardinal Thomas.
It is an honor to see you.
You should have informed us beforehand.
I did not want to interrupt
your Aleppo escapade.
You are still being the eyes and
the ears of our Holy Father.
His highness the Pope appreciates
your efforts but he has some reservations.
He needs to be convinced for
a new Crusader campaign.
How can he be convinced?
You have to take back the holy relics
those infidel Mohammadans stole from us.
I am guessing you know
who is hiding those holy relics.
-Hello, my brother.
-Brother?
Very wrong. Very.
I remember the day our mother
gave you birth. Shame.
Brothers should not treat
each other like this.
Get out of here.
You did not only shatter your brother.
You shattered your whole family.
Was it worth it?
You went after a bedouin.
And destroyed your wife, your children...
...your cause and everything else
with your own hands.
But we are brothers.
If you can bring me the items
in Ibn Arabi’s chest...
...I can grant you your family.
Do you still have hope that
I would serve for your goals?
Don’t ever talk to me about loyalty.
When you abandoned the Son of God
and sold out the Templars...
...you proved your loyalty.
Why should you not do the same again?
I promise you...
...if you can bring back the items
in that chest...
...you can see your family again.
I know that you don’t trust me anymore.
For you to trust me once again...
...I can arrange you to meet
your little daughter at midnight.
Is my Elanora here?
Good.
All the birds are in the same cage.
-Gokce, you go and sleep now.
-Alright, sister.
Sister?
-Hatun?
-Sister?
Quick, call Mother Hayme. Bring her here!
Gundogdu, something is happening.
Alright, Hatun. Alright. Calm down.
I will run and bring the midwife.
Be quick, hurry up!
Mother Hayme.
Come, my girl.
Gokce, what is the hurry? What happened?
Mother Hayme, my sister is in great pain.
She asked for you.
I hope it is not a bad thing.
Akcakoca, midwife Hatun,
do we have permission?
Yes, Bey? Akcakoca is outside.
I hope there is no bad news.
No, Selcan has some bad cramps.
We have to go to the tent immediately.
I will just get my cloak.
-Is Selcan Hatun pregnant, Bey?
-If God permits, come on.
-My girl.
-I can’t stand the pain, mother.
Come on. Keep calm, my girl. Calm down.
Let me check.
Calm down, I am just going to check.
Don’t do it, don’t!
I hope it is not serious.
Don’t.
Is my Bey father alone, mother?
No. Rahman is with him. Do not worry.
You go to my father, Gundogdu.
He should not be alone.
I said go.
Kurdoglu.
You have passed the Alp trials.
You fought with wolves and bears, faced
many dangers to return to your tribe.
You now have the right to carry
the title of Alp with honor.
But now the lesson you have to learn
is much more important than all these.
Being an Alp is not finding food
in times of need...
...but to stand strong
in the face of difficulties.
Suleyman Shah...
...Kurdoglu...
...Alpsungur...
...take an arrow from your quivers.
Break them!
Take one more arrow from
your quivers and give them to me.
If you take the advice of
your forefathers and always be united...
...you would be unbreakable
just like these arrows.
From now on never let your names
and selves be separated.
Those who talk about you,
should always refer to your togetherness.
Translation: Suzan Mıhladız